feat(checkbox): initial design guidance (#19)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1006-checkbox-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-15
updated: 2024-10-22
---

> # Checkbox Component

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Checkbox Design Guidance
```

> The [checkbox](https://clarity.design/documentation/checkbox) control allows the user to select one or more options from a multiple-choice list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [checkbox](https://clarity.design/documentation/checkbox) control enables users to select one or more options from a list of multiple choices, providing a straightforward way to capture user preferences.```

## Guidance

> - **Must** be used to choose single or multiple options within a list of choices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use checkboxes to allow users to select one or more options from a list of choices.
```

> - **Must not** be used for mutually exclusive options. Use a [radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams must not use checkboxes for mutually exclusive options; instead, they should use a [radio](https://clarity.design/documentation/radio) button for such cases.
```

> - **Should not** use checkbox for binary choices Outside a form. Use a [toggle-switch](https://clarity.design/documentation/toggle-switch) instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Should not** use checkbox for binary choices outside a form. Use a [toggle-switch](https://clarity.design/documentation/toggle-switch) instead.
```

> - **Should not** use checkbox for binary choices outside a form. Use a [toggle-switch](https://clarity.design/documentation/toggle-switch) instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should not** use checkboxes for binary choices outside of a form; instead, they should use a [toggle switch](https://clarity.design/documentation/toggle-switch).
```

> - **Should** keep the label of the checkbox to a single line.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** keep the label of the checkbox to a single line to enhance readability and ensure clarity for users.
```

> - **Should** use appropriate [checkbox states](https://clarity.design/documentation/checkbox#states).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Design teams **should** use appropriate [checkbox states](https://clarity.design/documentation/checkbox#states) to provide clear feedback on user interactions and improve overall usability.
```
